Welcome back.
We're finally made it or at least almost there.
One last topic to go and we are finished off with the star of security.
Let's talk about authentication and you might be thinking to yourself.
Hold on.
We kind of did this already with password storage.
With a little bit of injection and using updated libraries and logging HSDPA us and all these things.
And you might have seen that some of these overlap.
That's the case with security.
When one part of the system is vulnerable it affects other parts and it's just the way things are now.
Authentication means making sure that the person on the other end is who they say they are.
And this is done through passwords to authenticate that the users say that they are the person that
has access to this account.
And then afterwards we have to manage their session.
That is to make sure that we say that this is Tim over here that's sending me their request.
Remember on Twitter you don't have to sign in every time you refresh and authentication is really important
because it could have really big consequences by allowing attackers to compromised passwords keys session
tokens or other flaws can mean that they game personate other users.
And here's the thing.
This diagram is something that we're going to come back to because when it comes to authentication we
have an entire section dedicated to it where we go through the best practices learning about session
based authentication and token based authentication and how these work.
But the ideas are the same.
We make sure that the passwords match and that the user is who they say they are and then afterwards
we either give them a cookie or a token to manage their session that is every time they make a request
and we know who they are we know that.
That's Tim making your request.
Let's give Tim the appropriate resources that he needs good authentication means implementing simple
but adequate password rules that encourage users to have long random passwords instead of silly passwords
like 2:59 you want to use something like multi-factor authentication for your log ins like perhaps signing
in to Twitter also requires you to have two factor authentication on your phone where you have to say
yes I am who I say I am.
Let me log in as well.
We also learn that with cookies you want to set a should be only and secure headers to true.
But like I said this is a topic that I think is really important and we have an entire section dedicated
to it.
But the idea is this we need a way to make sure that whoever is on the other side we trust and we can
trust that they say who they say they're.